Level 0 Demihumans (Optional Rule)

Optionally, 1-in-6 level 0 characters is a
demihuman. Roll 1d4: 1. dwarf, 2. elf, 3.
gnome, 4. halfling.

All demihumans speak additional native
languages and have a 2-in-6 chance of
hearing noises when listening at a door.
Each race also has its own bons:

Dwarf: Infravision to 60'. 2-in-6 chance
of detecting room traps when searching.

Elf: Infravision to 60'. Immunity to
ghoul paralysis.

Gnome: Infravision to 90’. +2 AC when
attacked by large opponents.

Halfling: +1 to missile attack rolls. +2
AC when attacked by large opponents.

EXPERIENCE POINTS
AND ADVANCEMENT

After gaining XP on an adventure, a level
0 character becomes a Ist level adventur-
er. This is handled as follows.

1. Choose a Class

Choose a character class that the level 0
character graduates into, bearing in mind
the minimum ability score requirements
of some classes. Class selection can be
based on the character's ability scores,
background, or deeds at level 0.

Demihuman characters: May select the
equivalent demihuman class.

2. Roll Hit Points

Roll the Hit Die type for the chosen class
and apply the character's CON modifier.
If this number is higher than the charac-
ter’s hit points rolled at level 0, this be-
comes their new hp total. Otherwise, the
character keeps the hp rolled at level 0.

Re-rolling 1s and 2s: The referee may
allow the player to re-roll 1s and 2s.

Funnel Adventures

Funnel adventures were popularised by
the Dungeon Crawl Classics RPG. In a
funnel, a large group of level 0 charac-
ters is whittled down to a small number
of survivors, who then go on to become
full 1st level PCs. A funnel can be a fun
way to start a campaign and provides a
compelling backstory of the deeds that
led PCs to a life of adventure together,

1. Roll characters: Players roll up a
group of 10-20 level 0 characters.
These are everyday folk whose village
is threatened by some evil force.

2. Embark on adventure: The charac-
ters venture forth into peril to save
their village. Any normal adventure
suitable for 1st level characters can
be used (for example, the adventure
in this issue—see p26).

3. Play: During the adventure, each
player controls 3-5 of the characters.
Lacking the skills of true adventur-
ers, they must rely on their collective
wits and creativity to overcome the
odds. It is likely that some individu-
als will have to sacrifice their lives for
the good of the group.

4. Survivors: Of the characters who
survive the adventure, some are in-
spired to take up the life of an adven-
turer. Each player picks one of the
survivors as their PC for the contin-
uing campaign, choosing a character
class and advancing them to Ist level
as discussed in this article.

